# Spree Product Feed

Spree Product Feed extension allow you to connect your Spree 4 store to Google Muerchant Center via a live RSS feed.

## Installation

1. Add this extension to your Gemfile with this line:

    ```ruby
    gem 'spree_product_feed', github: 'matthewkennedy/spree_product_feed'
    ```

2. Install the gem using Bundler

    ```ruby
    bundle install
    ```

3. Copy & run migrations

    ```ruby
    bundle exec rails g spree_product_feed:install
    ```

4. Restart your server

  If your server was running, restart it so that it can find the assets properly.

## Instructions For Use

Once installed this extension allows you to add individual products to an  RSS feed found at: yourstoredomain.com/products.rss, this can then be submitted to your Google Merchant Centre acount.


### Selectable Options

If you create a product with variants (options) the Spree Product Feed extension will recconise the product as a "complex product", automaticly take the product variants and create new feed items relitive to each variant and its unique credentials.

These products variants are then grouped correctly under the ```<g:item_group_id>```using the master product ID.

An example of this would be a clothing item with sevral **Color** and **Size** options, each with a unique barcode.

If you are creating variants, be aware that the variants **Options Presentaion** value wil be passed into the feed Option Presentation = "Size" will be entered into the RSS feed as ```<g:size>```.


### Adding Product Specifc Data To Your Feed
If you have an item such as clothing that requires: ```<g:age_group>``` & ```<g:gender>``` to be passed into your Google Merchant Feed data, but do not wish to have these listed on your site as selectable variant options, you can add these to your product feed as follows.

In the example below we are adding ```<g:gender>``` to your product feed data.
- Form the admin visit **Properties** settings and click **New Property**.
- Add a new property using the following values: Name = ```Gender``` Presentation = ```product_feed_data```, click **Create**.
- Next edit your product and click the **Properties** tab form the sidebar options.
- Add a new property searchng for ```Gender``` and then enter the value ```Female```.

This will add ```<g:gender>Female</g:gender>``` into your feed for this product and all of its variants.

### Adding Brand
Create a property Name = ```Brand``` Presentation = ```product_feed_data```, and this will be added to your feed data.

### Unique Idetifier
You will notice that you have an option to add a unique identifier to the master product, and its variants. This is a requirement for most products passed into Google Merchant.


## ToDo
- Bug fix: In products with variants, some options are missing in the feed data.
- Clean up code, and find ways to write parts better.
- Move the extensions feed options into their own sidebar view, from just stuck on the end of the main product view.

## Testing

First bundle your dependencies, then run `rake`. `rake` will default to building the dummy app if it does not exist, then it will run specs. The dummy app can be regenerated by using `rake test_app`.

```shell
bundle
bundle exec rake
```

When testing your applications integration with this extension you may use it's factories.
Simply add this require statement to your spec_helper:

```ruby
require 'spree_product_feed/factories'
```

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute, please take a look at the
[instructions](CONTRIBUTING.md) for installing dependencies and crafting a good
pull request.

Copyright (c) 2020 [name of extension creator], released under the New BSD License
